tail between his legs, into the wood.
probably right, good deeds are repaid with bad deeds," and off he went, his 
cunning! The cunning one is that peasant. Oh, well, that poor snake was 
   The fox trotted away, sad and disappointed, muttering, "and they say I'm 
if you don't want to get into trouble!"
two snarling dogs and a gun, shouting, "Get out of here, you horrible beast, 
   That same evening, the fox went to the farm, but the peasant appeared with 
the man.
   "No, I won't. Come to the farm this evening and you shall have them," said 
lamb and the goose you promised me."
   "Oh, it was nothing," replied the fox, "but don't forget that piglet, the 
of that wicked snake for me! Thanks a million!"
   "Ah, fox," said the peasant happily, "now that was a good deed! You got rid
yet!).
across the mouth of the den, imprisoning the snake (and I think he's in there 
   "Quick, peasant man! Shut him in!" and the peasant rolled the boulder back 
   "Don't you think so?" and slid swiftly into the hole. Then the fox shouted,
little hole," he said. Annoyed, the snake retorted,
   But the fox shook his head. "A big snake like you couldn't get into such a 
That boulder fell just there," and he pointed to the entrance.
his den with the fox and the peasant. Pointing to the boulder, he said, "See? 
   "Oh, don't you? Well come and see then," said the snake, setting off for 
   "I don't believe you!"
entrance to my den."
   "But it was a big boulder," the snake protested, "and, it was blocking the 
and said, "Hmm! I think a snake can manage to slither under a boulder."
boulder, wants to bite me," replied the peasant. The fox looked at the snake 
   "Because this snake, that I helped to escape from his hole blocked by a 
"why ask me that question?"
   "A good deed is always rewarded with another good deed, but," he went on, 
question and the fox replied as had been agreed.
and hear what he thinks about it." A little later they asked the fox the same 
   "I saw a fox over there," he said. "As you know, foxes are wise. Let's go 
   "Good," said the fox. The peasant went back to the snake.
a present of a piglet, a lamb or a goose. How's that?"
If you say that one good deed is rewarded by another good deed, I'll give you 
   "Well, listen, I'm going to ask you the same question in front of a snake. 
   "Of course!" replied the fox. Then the man went on.
one?" 
   "Listen, fox, do you too think that a good deed is always rewarded by a bad
wood to speak to the fox.
he had an idea. With an excuse, he left the snake on the road and ran into the
   On they went, and in the wood, the peasant caught sight of a fox. Suddenly 
bite me."
play the deciding round. If I'm wrong at the third question, then I'll let you
   "Please! We've had the first round, and the second one as well, now let's 
   "Get ready," said the snake, "I'm about to bite!" But the peasant said,
heat!"
winter, so I feel the cold, and makes me keep it in summer, so I melt with the
complain. I obey him all the time and what does he do? He shears my fleece in 
always repaid with a bad deed. Look at me, I always follow my master and never
   They met a sheep which, at the peasant's question, said: "A good deed is 
the pair went on their way.
wait and see, I'm right and I'll get my bite!" So, leaving the horse behind, 
   "Bother!" exclaimed the snake. "Very well, let's look for someone else, but
someone else."
But the man exclaimed: "Wait! One question isn't enough! We have to ask 
turned to the peasant and hissed, "Did you hear that? I shall bite you now!" 
that I'm old, he has left me to die of starvation!" At these words, the snake 
   "A bad deed. Look at me! I served my master faithfully for years and now 
reward?" Without a moment's hesitation, the horse replied.
   "Listen, friend. If someone does a good deed, what does he get as his 
scratches, with an uncombed mane and dirty tail. The peasant spoke to him.
   A little later, they met an old mangy lame horse, thin and covered in 
   "Agreed," said the peasant, and off they went.
then I shall bite you. Agreed?"
someone who thinks as you do, well, that's it, but if people say I'm right, 
   "Very well," said the snake. "Let's go and ask someone. If we come across 
   "No, I didn't. I don't think that's so," said the peasant.
rewarded by an evil one, didn't you know that?"
   "Why did you do that?" The snake replied, "Because every good deed is 
him. The man jumped back and cried,
the ground slid a snake which darted towards the peasant and tried to bite 
himself to be persuaded and he shifted the boulder . . . and out of a hole in 
   "No, no, I promise I won't. Get me out, please!" The peasant allowed 
   "A snake? But if I let you out you will bite me."
   "I'm a poor snake," came the reply.
   "But who are you?"
asked:
out, I'm going to die. Please help me. Move the boulder." The peasant then 
   "It's me. The rock rolled down over my hole and I'm shut in. I can't get 
"Who's that calling?" And a voice replied,
the sound was coming from beneath a large boulder. He asked in amazement: 
"Help! Help!" He looked round, took a careful step or two then realised that 
   Once upon a time, a peasant on his way home heard a feeble voice calling 

               THE PEASANT, THE SNAKE AND THE FOX
